Okay, so let's try out our
newfound event handling powers.
What we're gonna do is,
just for right now,
we're not actually gonna put this code
in our text file, in our HTML file,
we're just gonna try it out in
the console on our quiz page.
So I have this my in progress quiz page,
we're gonna try out a couple
of different event handlers.
So, see if you can try
doing any of these things.
For example, we could capitalize
the text of a button when it's clicked,
or we could change some
text to be hovering or
to be some other thing when
the mouse moves over the element.
So let's take a moment,
a couple of minutes to try this out, and
then we'll talk about some
handlers we could attach here.
Let's try it out.
So how about capitalizing the text of
the true button when it's clicked?
So what element am I gonna need
to attach the event listener to?
>> Mine's B, cuz it's button is 0.
>> Okay, so maybe I already have
a variable kind of capturing this.
Do I have, I have optionButtons,
I could get optionButtons[0],
for example, is the true button.
Yeah, cool.
So let me, I'm just gonna capture that,
And a variable.
Okay, so how can I add a listener to
the click event on this true button?
>> trueButton.addEventListener.
>> .addEventListener, and
JavaScript's already helping me out.
And then what's the first
argument I need to pass in?
>> Mouseover.
>> So in this case, we want to do
something when somebody clicks the button.
So the name of the event that we want is,
I think you were about to say it, Jay.
>> Click.
>> Click, exactly.
Now, we could attach a mouseover handler
to this button also, but in this case,
we were saying, let's try to do
something when the button is clicked.
So we can have click.
And then what we wanted to do is
capitalize the text of the button.
So we're gonna need to give a handler
function that does just that.
So how can I declare my handler function
using our good friend, the fat arrow?
What do I need to type here?
>> Open parenthesis event.
>> Open parenthesis, and
we could capture the event, if we want to.
Let's see if we're gonna need it.
And then =>.
And now,
since I might want to put multiple
lines of code in this arrow function,
how can I do that?
>> Curly braces.
>> Curly braces, exactly, nice.
Okay, so now I've got my body
of my function, and now,
what I wanna do is capitalize
the text of this button.
So does anybody remember
how we can do that, yeah?
>> textContent.
>> Okay, so trueButton-
>> .textContent.
>> textContent.
>> And then you would just =
trueButton.textContent.toUpper
>> So trueButton.textContent, sorry,
you said, toUpperCase.
>> UpperCase.
>> Like that?
Let's try it out.
Okay, I'm missing something here.
And my syntax,
I've tried to press Enter and
it wouldn't even let me cuz I'm missing
something, anybody noticed what it is?
>> It's an ending.
>> An ending parenthesis, yeah.
So what we had here, and we'll see that
the console is somewhat helping me out.
I had initially opened the parentheses,
but then when I added more parentheses
around my events here, it closed them,
it auto closed them for me.
So I needed to add that
extra closing parenthesis.
And then yes,
I could put a semicolon also.
So now, let's see what happens.
We did it, lovely.
Okay, how about doing something when
I move my mouse into the h1 element?
So the h1 element here is this
Quiz.js at the top of the page.
So what I want to happen is,
basically, when my mouse
goes in to the Quiz.js,
I want to change it to hovering.
So what event did we just
see a minute ago that
indicates when your mouse has
entered an element area on the page?
>> Mouseover.
Okay, so let's grab my h1 element,
first of all, how can I do that?
We have our good friend, document.
And let's check out our inspector,
what do we have to work with in this h1?
Well, we don't really have any ID or
anything like that, so
I guess I’m gonna have to use the name h1,
the tag name here.
Couple of ways I can do that, but
does anybody remember one of them,
to grab that h1 element
out of the document?
>> GetElementsById.
>> ByName.
>> So we don't actually have an ID on this
element, so unfortunately,
that's not gonna work here.
The other suggestion was?
>> ByName.
>> ByName, okay, so let's keep in mind,
we have two very similar things.
We have getElementsByName,
which is looking for
the name attribute on the element,
which unfortunately we don't have here.
But we also have getElementsByTagName,
which is gonna look for
the actual HTML tag that this element is.
So we could use that one with h1.
But now,
what happens if I run this code like this?
What is the value of h1 gonna be?
Is it gonna be a single element?
Let's find out.
Okay, let's take a look.
So now h1 is, so
it's actually a collection of elements, or
essentially kind of
a grouping of elements.
It sort of functions like an array
of elements because we had
getElementsByTagName, plural.
So if I want to change the value of my
h1 variable to be just the h1 element,
which is essentially the only thing inside
of this collection, how can I do that?
Reassign the variable to, The first
thing in an array or a list of things?
>> Index 0.
>> Index 0, yeah.
So I can do that by grabbing
my current value of h1, and
then using square brackets to ask for
the item at index 0, right?
So let's see now, h1 is this h1 element.
Great, okay, cool.
So now, how do I attach an event
listener that's gonna know
when my mouse has moved over that element?
Let's make some space.
So I'm gonna do h1.addEventListener.
The first thing I need to pass in
is the name of the event, which is?
>> Mouseover.
>> Mouseover, in this case.
And then we're gonna have
another arrow function.
And in this case, we're not really gonna
even need the event object too much, so
I'm just not including it.
And now, we wanna change the text of h1,
which is pretty similar to what we
did before, we had textContent.
Yeah, we could use, for example.
And then I think we said
we want to be hovering.
Okay, does this look right too, folks?
I'm seeing some nodding.
Let's try it out.
Okay, so now if we did our jobs right,
now, up, there it went.
Look at that.
Now, what happens?
Now, right now,
I'm still hovering over this element,
what happens when I leave it?
What do you think is gonna happen when I
move the mouse away from this element?
I heard nothing, and I saw shrugs.
Exactly, yes.
So right now,
we've only listened to the mouseover
event, which just listens for,
basically, the first time
the pointer moves over that element.
So if we want to change our text back to,
I think it was Quiz.js,
we can listen for another event.
Does anyone remember what it was?
Karl?
>> Mouseout.
>> Mouseout, yeah.
These are just, eventually, you'll get
used to the names of these events,
it's pretty arbitrary.
But yes, there is another mouseout event.
So by this point, we're getting pretty
used to it, so I can attach my listener,
mouseout.
And then I can do something
else to the textContent,
like put it back to Quiz.js,
for example, okay?
So now, up, Up, up, up, up, it's fun.
[LAUGH] We've got something
happening on our page now.
So now, this is a pretty simple one,
it's just changing the text.
But you can imagine that this is the same
skill you would need to do those fancy
effects that web pages you've seen do when
you hover over an element and it glows or
whatever.
We can do whatever we want, we can
apply CSS, we can change the content,
we can do other things.
So look at our superpowers now, amazing.
Now, what do you think is gonna
happen if I refresh the page?
Are these events still
gonna to be listened to?
No, I'm seeing shaking heads.
And indeed, no,
because I did this all in the console,
the lifetime of that is only while
this particular document exists.
So if I want to make these kinds of
changes part of my webpage that's
always there, we're gonna have
to put them in our text file.
Okay, so now, it's handled,
our events are handled.
And we can take this and
we're gonna need a couple more things in
order to make our quiz game actually
respond to the user's answer.